Inside Israel, people are
seeing a very different picture of the war
from the rest of the world and from from
what you've just heard with IDF soldiers
documenting their military offensive
in real time.
Correspondent Jeremy
Diamond reports on this trend unfolding
on social media.
This is a how to video
on how to blow up a mosque in Gaza.
Format is internet fluent.
The content is very real.
Filmed, edited and posted on Instagram
by an Israeli soldier
It's one of dozens reviewed by CNN.
For many in 2024, social media is everyday
life.
Israeli soldiers are no different,
except they're fighting
Israel's largest
and most brutal war in decades.
In video
after video
after video, U.S.
soldiers document the destruction of Gaza
and rejoice on this.
They filmed detonations
to use as wedding invitations
Among them are would be comedians
whose videos satirizing the war
show the devastation in Gaza.
Air you get to see the
satellite lands.
And now
up to five soldiers
have always documented themselves.
It could be in journals.
It could be with you taking pictures.
Avner Carvajal who served in the IDF
during the second intifada.
He leads the group Breaking the Silence,
which encourages
soldiers to speak out
about the realities of occupation.
Even if we do find,
you know, the why we went to this war
important, significant and a necessity,
we have to ask ourselves
how we're conducting ourselves in wartime.
The videos often
end up on the social media channels
of Right-Wing Political Commentators.
They boast to the Israeli public of
the tactics used to defend them by going
the IDF told CNN that it has acted
and continues to act to identify
unusual cases that deviate from
what is expected of IDF soldiers.
Those cases will be arbitrated
and significant command measures
will be taken against the soldiers
involved.
Images from Gaza of Israel's war injured
are rare on Israeli television,
but they're there on tick tock.
The overarching theme is that,
you know, we're here.
We're going to win. We're powerful enough.
And I think that what these soldiers
are doing with these these rips
that we see on social media
is part of an attempt
to regain a sense of agency,
regain sense of power, reclaim,
you know, the sense of positive self
image, the way we talk about ourselves
before October seven, 09.
At times, they openly defy their military'
in their own right
and film themselves, destroying
civilian shops
because Israel
is under increasing scrutiny
over the war in Gaza.
These videos may well be adding
fuel to that criticism.
Just in to CNN, the IDF says it's detained
more than 20 people suspected
of taking part in the October 7th attacks
as its raid of the largest
functioning hospital in Gaza continues.
The Israeli military also says
it found weapons inside the facility
but CNN hasn't been able
to independently verify that photograph.
The IDF, though, says the mission inside
the hospital is still ongoing.
I want to get to CNN's Nic Robertson
who is live in Tel Aviv for us.
So, Nic, what more are you learning
Well, there's a couple of things
about the hospital.
We're learning from.
The World Health Organization say
they are trying to work with the Israeli
authorities to get access to the hospital
and stabilize the situation there.
According to hospital
authorities, electricity
and the ICU unit and possibly oxygen,
oxygen supply there as well as well
are in critical condition.
And this could threaten
the lives of several patients and infants
that are within the
within the ICU, the critical care unit
at the hospital there.
But to the what the IDF is saying
that they have now rounded up 20 suspects
they say, who were involved
in the October 7th attacks.
They've released photographs
of a few of them
that we cannot independently verify
were involved in the October 7th attacks.
The IDF described one of them
as an ambulance driver.
Again, something we can't verify.
The IDF originally went into the hospital,
they said, because they had credible
intelligence that there were possibly
the bodies of hostages, that they had this
intelligence, they say, from their sources
and from other hostages.
The IDF point to the fact that hostages
have been held in hospitals before.
And according to hospital officials
at the National Hospital,
the IDF were digging up bodies and some of
the temporary graves that have been done
get inside the hospital
to check those bodies.
But later in the day yesterday, Thursday,
the IDF said
that they were becoming aware
that they could be terror operatives
hiding among the displaced people
within the hospital.
And they began to filter out
the displaced people from the hospital,
taking into custody those suspects.
And now they say.
20 suspects involved, October 7th,
have now been rounded up from that
hospital Yeah.
Nic Robertson
going to continue to follow those updates.
Thank you so much.